is dinner ready mom yes go get Paul he's
eating dinner with us why his parents on
home tonight okay John dear can you get
the chopsticks sure dinner smells good
can I help no no Patti sit here I'm back
with Paul hi I'm coach on Susy ie hi
hello Patti this is Paul
he is our neighbor hi Paul hey let's eat
everyone Patti try some 3 cup chicken 3
cups of chicken no no three cups of
chicken 3 cup chicken you need 3 cups of
ingredients Oh 3 cup chicken is really
good mom is the best cook Thanks and
here's some fried rice no thanks I love
fried rice mom makes it sometimes mister
mama cooked much Chinese food
no mom cooks more American food dad
likes American food yes I remember
what's that dish boy stur omelette hmm
YUM it's really good try it Patti uh
okay this is interesting okay Patti do
you want the fish head Fish Head Penny
eat some vegetables thanks Susie I year
this vegetable is cone sings hi in
English people call it water spinach
Kong Ching side I like it Suzie ie
thanks for cooking dinner
big warm no thank you
and fall eat more I can't the food is
not that good excuse me Paul what did
you say nothing
eat more everyone Suzie ie how did you
cook the eggplant do you like it
yes when my mom cooks eggplants
they're usually brown but these are
purple i fry the eggplants in a wok with
some vinegar then the eggplants stay
purple my wife cooks the best Chinese
food I know Susie ie you really cooked a
lot of dishes she did but you know at a
wedding banquet there are often eight
courses of food really if I went to one
I'd probably be stuffed
why eight courses of food the number
eight in Chinese sounds like good luck
each dish has a special meaning - that's
very interesting
ma what's for dessert tonight I almost
forgot I made something special
[Music]
that's my coin Paul no it's not yes it
is the coin is cool it's gold give it
back Paul I can share with you but it's
not yours to share it's mine
Brian it's okay if Paul wants to share
it let him but it's not his both of you
can have it
mm-hmm Brian we can play with it
together Paul my teacher gave the coin
to me you were there is that true Paul
no mr. Lee gave it to me when did you
take it from me Paul what are you
talking about when did mr. Lee give the
coin to you Paul let me think
he gave it to me on April 31st then Paul
is not the real owner
the real owner is Brian how do you know
Patti because there is no April 31st the
month of April only has 30 days that's
right
fine pick a card oh oh I'm sorry okay
sorry I really don't like Paul does he
pick on you a lot yes well no not really
he gets picked on too Paul just needs
help sometimes we all do
he wasn't very polite no I think Paul is
angry and sad his parents aren't home
very much so we often invite him to eat
dinner with us I try to be nice but
sometimes it's hard
I'm glad you try Brian Paul is a good
kid Paul was rude yes but we need to be
kind anyway we are nice to everyone all
the time either no you're right Suzy ie
well I'll call Paul's mother later Suzy
ie hmm I can clean up no no mom you've
had a long day we'll clean okay thank
you
thank you Susie ie dinner was so good
I'm sorry I can't take you to Taipei I
know grandma don't worry I understand
your car's in the shop we know yes and
can they fix my baby I hope so
your baby it's just a car I know but I
love my car it's my baby what's wrong
with your baby the brakes aren't very
good I can't drive a car without good
brakes that's right it's not safe
you are going to tie Bay and safety is
important don't worry grandma the Train
is safe the Train I'm so excited I can't
go with you I'm sad about that but I
have my English class this week grandma
you are a good teacher today Roger can
teach you about the train you can take
it to Taipei I can't wait
patty get a window seat the scenery is
beautiful when are you coming back
tomorrow evening our train arrives back
at hua Lian's station around 5:30 p.m.
this is a nice train station where is
everyone traveling all over Taiwan
taking the train is very convenient we
even have high-speed rail high-speed
rail that sounds fun
what are those two people yelling about
let me find out is there a problem
between the man and the women it's
interesting here's the man's story the
woman sat beside him on the train then
the man went to sleep and she took his
wallet did she she said no and she
doesn't even remember this man the man
was in seat 48 but she wasn't seat 49 is
everything okay
patty you have a window seat beside me
you have seat 38 and I have seat 40 but
then we aren't beside each other sure we
are all this seats with even numbers are
together and all the seats with odd
numbers are together wait a minute then
the man is lying Brian
dear journal I'm on the train Raja is
sleeping and Brian is listening to music
I like my window seat something
interesting happened at the train
station a man lied about his missing
wallet and blamed a woman for it but she
didn't take his wallet
because she did not sit beside him the
women is okay now
[Music]
it's interesting to watch people many
people are talking on their cell phones
others are reading and many are sleeping
just like Roger I'm too excited to sleep
I'm on my way to Taipei I can't wait to
see Taipei 101 and to meet Daisy Rogers
friend what a fun trip from the Train
Patti
[Music]
so this is Taipei I like it paddy this
is only Taipei main station just wait
until we get out into the city do you
have your ticket no I gave it to the
train conductor but he gave it back to
you right look in your pocket I found it
good you have to give it to the man at
the gate will also meet Daisy there
where's Daisy she'll be here soon let's
just go through the gate
can I keep my ticket it would be a nice
memory of my train trip yes just get a
stamp on your ticket here you go Patti
Thanks I'll put it in my journal Hey
there's Daisy hi everyone welcome to
today Daisy it's great to see you again
meet my cousin Patti hi Patti it's nice
to meet you
Daisy and I went to school together it's
nice to meet you too I'm so excited me
too let's first go to my house and then
we can go to tae bay 101 for lunch are
we taking the bus yes let's go to the
bus stop together
this is my first time to take the bus in
Taipei you'll have to show me what to do
sure do you see this sign it shows the
bus number the bus stops at all these
places so which bus do we take this is
our bus number does our bus stop at your
home it stops close to my home we'll
have to walk about a block when there's
our best time soon we'll have to wait
here for the bus with our number on it
how much is the bus ride it's only 15 mg
that's cheaper than in America when do
we pay sometimes you pay when you get on
the bus sometimes you pay when you get
off we'll show you a sign on the bus the
first character on it is Shum if the
light behind that character is on you
pay when you get on the bus the second
character is stop if the light behind
that character is on you pay when you
get off the bus and good riding the bus
isn't a mystery but maybe you'll find
another one to solve you're a detective
Rogers told me about you
oh here comes our bus so why do people
call this building Taipei 101 well the
building is in Taipei and it has a
hundred and one floors Wow that's tall
we have tall buildings at home but none
of this tall well let's go in which way
is the entrance it's over there come on
[Applause]
so what can we do here we can shop I can
see that there are a lot of stores what
else can we do we can go up to the
observatory on the 89th floor we can see
all of Taipei from up there fun but can
we eat first
I'm hungry the food court is downstairs
follow me
okay I'm full let's have some fun let's
go up to the observatory alright
hey there's a nice bookstore on the
fourth floor
can we stop there on the way sure
does this book starts out English books
yes this bookstore has a hundred and
sixty thousand different English books
wow that's a lot let's go Patti where
are you going
the bookstore is this way right let's go
Wow this store is big hey are there any
travel books here why do you want to
look at travel books I want to find one
about Taiwan didn't you bring one with
you no I forgot
well the travel books are straight ahead
I'll show you I'm going to walk around
and look at other books don't get lost
I won't hey patty did you find anything
good yes I did this book is really good
it is all about Taiwan it even has a
section on hua Lian that's great how
much is the book five hundred eighty
nine ninety okay do you want to buy
anything else yes does this store sell
CDs sure they are around the corner
follow me
hey Roger where are you I'm by the
coffee shop are you guys ready to go let
me ask the girls hey girls
are you ready to go I'm ready I just
need to find my things okay Roger we'll
meet you at the entrance okay but I have
a question what is it where is the
entrance I'm a little lost just stay
there and we'll come find you dear
journal I had a great weekend
my cousins and I explored Taipei with
our new friend Daisy Daisy took us to
see a lot of the sights in Taipei we
went to the National Palace Museum a
place called Chi Minh ding
[Music]
[Applause]
how do you go to work I usually go to
work by bus do you usually travel by
train yes I do yes I do oh yes I do I
love traveling by train no I don't
I usually travel by taxi can I take the
subway to the airport from here I think
you can't or I think you can't because
there's no subway station around here
yes of course go straight for five
minutes you will see a subway station on
your left
do you prefer traveling by plane or by
train
I prefer traveling by plane now for
number one how do you go to work how do
you go to work that means like I want to
know what means of transport do you use
to go to work okay go to work you can
say go der in short form go to tea that
is not stress you can say as the okay go
to go to go to work how do you go to
work I usually go to work by bus I
usually go to work by bus or I usually
go to work by train by taxi or maybe by
helicopter or maybe by the subway okay I
usually go to work by bus number two do
you usually travel by train travel here
that there is a mean travel that means
you visit a place or country travel here
in transportation it means to go from
one place to another place okay so
travel do you usually travel by train
that means do
you you do usually go by train go to
another place by train do you usually
travel by train you can say yes I do I
love traveling by train yes I do
I love traveling by train or you can say
no I don't
I usually travel by taxi
no I don't I usually travel by taxi
number three can I take the subway to
the airport from here for example I'm
new to a place for example like now I'm
am visiting maybe Bangkok and maybe like
I'm in the hotel or maybe a particular
place and then I want to take the subway
to the airport but I don't know that it
is possible or not and then I have to
ask maybe a local resident the people
there okay one that go the one don't go
there movies tonight why not go to the
movies tonight that's interesting what
time that's interesting what time
how about 9:30 how about 9:30
oh that's too late for me oh that's too
late for me I have to get up early to go
to work I have picked up early to go to
work what time do you go to work
what time do you go to work what time do
you go to work I usually go to work at 7
o'clock I usually go to work at 7
o'clock that's too early that's early
yeah that's why I usually go to bed at
10:00 and get up at 6:00 to get early
for work yeah that's why I usually go to
bed at 10:00 and get up a sixth
get ready for work okay I know it's not
easy at all but give it a try practice
again and again and you know when you
practice everyday maybe I think just
about 30 minutes a day and after maybe a
week you can feel that you speak quicker
faster and up to a month I think you
know your speed we're really fast and
maybe after maybe one month or two you
can speak as fast as a native speaker
don't worry about that practice and
practice okay so that's all for today
thanks goodbye see ya